In this movie, we will use the Merge Shape command to build a cool concept diagram inside the Acme template.
I'm going to create a new slide.
I placed my cursor over here,
and press Ctrl M shortcut. A blank layout appears automatically because that has been my last choice.
This time, however, I want to use the Title Only layout.
As the first thing, let's create a title.
I'm going to type.
'What makes us different?'
This slide is going to be about the corporate values of the Acme Company.
Now, let's create the first textbooks by clicking at this icon here and dragging.
I'm going to type 'Engineering with passion'.
I also want this textbooks to be wider.
I navigate to the Shape Format tab and change the width
into 9.5 points.
Now, let's format the text.
I change the font size into 18 points.
And apply bold by pressing Ctrl B shortcut.
To make this text even more distinctive, I will create a thick line and put it underneath it.
I choose the line from the list, press Shift and drag to make it perfectly straight.
I also change the color into yellow,
increase in line width,
and to change that with into 9.5 points.
OK, now I will use the Quick Tools add-in to align the objects.
Now it's time to create a description which will be put underneath it.
I navigate the Quick Access Toolbar,
I chose this command over here
and drag. I align and adjust its width manually to already created header box.
Next, I'm going to type:
'We believe in innovation
to help companies solve today's challenges.'
OK, let's select everything inside this textbox by pressing
Ctrl A shortcut and change that font size into 18 points just to be consistent.
Once I have this first headerbox and description ready, I'm going to group them by using the loop
selection and pressing Ctrl D shortcut.
Now I create copies by pressing Ctrl D two times.
I'm going to adjust the position of these elements across this slide.
Now, I press Shift to add the third group to my selection and distribute everything horizontally
using the native alignment tools.
I will also position the second group of shapes on the top of my slide.
Next, I select everything
once again,
and press Ctrl Shift G to ungroup.
It is a good moment to change
text inside other placeholders.
Let's start with this one.
Next, I'm going to type:
'We work as one team.
Both with each other and our clients.'
And the next one:
Next, I'm going to type: 'With average NPS score of over 90%
we are considered a key strategic technology partner.'
Perfect, ones that textual content is ready,
it's time to create a concepts diagram.
Let's first draw a triangle.
I press Shift key to make it proportional.
I also change the fill color into yellow,
and get rid of outlines.
As the next step,
I'm going to cut smaller shape from the bigger shape.
This is how I do this.
I create a copy of this yellow triangle by pressing Ctrl D shortcut.
Once the copied shape is selected, I want to make it a little bit smaller and keep the shapes proportions
at the same time.
So, I press Shift and Ctrl key, and drag to the inside like this.
Perfect!
Next, I'm going to change the smaller shape's color into gray just to see what's going on here.
And now let's align it center and middle with the bigger yellow triangle using the Quick Tools macro's.
Let's also match the smaller object a little bit by using Ctrl
and down arrow key.
Once two shapes are positioned one into another,
it's time to use the 'Subtract' tool.
My aim is to cut gray shape from the yellow one.
So, I select the bigger shape first,
I press Shift key to select the second one,
I navigate to my Quick Access Toolbar,
Choose Merge Shape tool command and click at 'Subtract'.
Perfect, as you can see, the selection order matters here.
It is important to select the bigger shape first.
Now it's time to break the triangle into three, evenly parts with some help of 'Fragment' tool.
First, I create a rectangle.
I apply the height of 12 centimeters and the width of 1 centimeter.
Now, let's align it center and middle with the triangle using the Quick Tools add-in.
As the next step, I press Ctrl D to create a copy.
Now I want to rotate my shape 90 degrees.
I can make a good use of Alt and right arrow key.
This shortcut rotates with 15 degrees increments,
so let's do a small calculation:
90 divided by 15 gives us 6,
it means that I must press right arrow key 6 times to rotate my shape 90 degrees.
Let's do this!
Now, I'm going to align this shape center with my yellow triangle.
I am also going to adjust this height a little bit.
I just don't want it to cover the peak of this triangle.
In a moment, you will see why.
OK, now it's time to use the 'Fragment' tool.
I select my yellow triangle first, then I press Shift and select two rectangles,
I navigate to the Merge Shape Tool command.
and choose 'Fragment'.
As you can see, this tool breaks all selected objects into several pieces.
Now, let's get rid of those which are unnecessary.
A loop selection might come in handy here.
Perfect!
Right now, I have three, independent shapes.
Next, I'm going to group all three parts of triangle,
and align them center with the headerbox on the top.
I also use Ctrl to gently nudge an object.
Perfect,
this slide is almost ready!
Now, we will place three icons within our concepts diagram.
To insert an icon, I navigate to the Insert tab and choose Icons.
Here you can scroll through the vector graphics or jump to the category by clicking a name in
the navigation pane.
You can also search by putting the tag here.
This is what I'm going to do.
Let's start with finding a nice icon for effective collaboration.
I'm going to type 'collaborate'.
And I really like this icon here showing you the group of people.
Once it's done, I'm going to search for the second icon, which should well correspond with 'engineering
with fashion'.
Actually, I would like to find something which is related to the creativity maybe.
Let's type it.
OK.
I really like this
icon here.
Please keep in mind that it's good to choose icons which are very similar in terms of style.
My first icon showing the group of people has very thin lines.
Therefor, choosing this one as the second option might not be the best idea.
OK, now it's time to find the third icon for 'client centric approach'.
Let's type
'client' maybe.
No, I will try something different, maybe 'central'.
OK.
This one looks good.
And as this button informs me, I have three elements selected.
Let's place them on the slide.
Great!
Now, I would like to format those icons a little bit. I change the color into the very dark gray.
Let's also reduce the size by pressing the Shift key and dragging.
Remember, I want to keep the proportions as they are.
Now it's time to align each icon to the little triangle to which it belongs.
I will start with the 'effective collaboration' icon.
The Quick Tools add-in helps me a lot.
I do the same for other items.
As the next step, I'm going to create two lines which will visually separate my three rectangles from
one another.
I choose a line from the list,
I press Shift and drag.
Now I change the color into dark gray,
and align properly.
Now, I copy the line by pressing Ctrl D shortcut,
and I rotate it using Alt and right arrow key shortcut.
I press the arrow 6 times.
Next, let's reduce the height a little bit by pressing Shift and dragging.
I'm going to align it center,
and middle.
I will also conduct the final alignment and adjust the position of elements a little bit.
Perfect!
The slide is ready.
This is how you can use Merge Shape Tools to create a professional concept diagram.